The area of artificial intelligence is
especially exciting, as it might be
applied to the FinTech,
robo advisor and ensure tech areas.
What is an artificial intelligence again?
Well, ultimately, it's a description
of software which can perform all kinds
of tasks that are historically normally
associated with reasoning by humans.
That could be learning,
it could be simulating self-awareness,
including potentially
the perception of emotions, and
insurers have focus on harnessing
artificial intelligence.
First, with respect to
customer interactions,
chatbots, for example, or programs that
communicate with customers verbally,
through text,
ultimately guiding decision-making.
Allstate, for example,
the well-known insurance company,
created a chatbot called ABIE,
the Allstate Business Insurance Expert.
ABIE, specifically residing on Allstate's
website, provides answers 24/7,
365 days a year,
to answer policy owners' queries.
Other insurance companies have followed,
specifically focusing on
answering customer questions,
help them complete applications,
or even filing claim reports.
Another type of Insurtech is machine
learning, which is a subset of AI.
Allowing computers and
their software algorithms to simulate
learning or data augmentation and
knowledge augmentation over time.
Using rules or models to
simulate the way the brain works.
This kind of learning, machine learning,
allows computers to extract patterns from
data and that could be structured data,
in the form of numerical data, or
unstructured data, in the form of text,
or other elements including pictures,
rather than following highly
specific instructions.
Of course, instructions
are important in the definition
of the algorithms that
machine learning represent.
But in as far as machine learning can self
replicate or operate under
a broader set of instructions.
Machine learning gives the appearance of
being closer to the activities
of the human brain.
Not many insurance are currently
using what we call deep learning,
machine learning.
Certain insurance companies
are applying it to
huge amounts of data that they collect.
NAIT, so the National Association
of Insurance Commissioners,
indicates that only about 10 to
15 percent of the data collected
by insurance companies is
currently actively used.
Machine learning could allow those
insurers to look at large amounts of data,
sometimes known as Big Data,
to extract patterns that are useful for
their businesses.
Some examples could include risk modeling,
allowing insurers to
analyze their claims data in
order to predict risk better.
Of course, the historical data in the form
of the history of losses may not be
the only data that are important
in understanding how to price risk and
how to predict the risk.
Insurers could create models to predict
demand for their own products and
also develop new products, and
therefore understand how to price them,
or determine their premium.
Fraud, as you might expect, is a potential
problem in the insurance industry.
Machine learning,
including analyzing pictures and
looking for certain markers of fraud,
could both allow insurers to propagate
their business models better,
but also potentially decrease costs
due to the dead weight loss of fraud.
Those may be obvious to human adjusters,
but also, of course, it may not be.
The automation of claims, which of course
could lead to happier policy holders,
is another area where machine learning and
it's an efficiency and speed may apply,
automating, reporting, processing, and
speeding along the customer experience.
And finally, one of the most important
areas of insurance, underwriting.
Underwriters are those human decision
makers who analyze data and,
ultimately, make the decision of how to
take on a given risk, and how to price it.
Computers can aid that
decision making process,
they can flag risks in the process,
and they can also point out
inconsistencies in data that human
underwriters may not be able to see.
They can also check external sources,
like social media,
to verify accuracy of input data.